Welcome Back. In task three,
we have learned about the assumptions for ARIMA and have seen
how to remove non-stationarity from our data.
Our next step is to determine what type of model is suitable
for the given time series data. In general we utilize the ACF
and PACF plots to determine the suitability of the type
of ARIMA model.
ACF plots the auto correlation of the given series
with its lag values.
In simpler terms, it helps to understand how present value
of the time series is linked with its past values.
ACF
considers all the possibilities like trend, seasonality,
cyclicity while evaluating the auto correlation function.
PACF is slightly different.
It deals with the partial auto correlation
unlike complete correlation
as in the previous case. It evaluates the correlation
in the residuals after removal of the non-stationarities
as we have done in the previous step. Based on the functional
plots, we can determine the series in one of the following
categories.
An auto regressive process is basically where the present
value can be represented as the weighted average of its
historical values.
The mathematical representation of an AR process of order p
is given here. A moving average process on the other hand,
represents its present value as a linear combination of past
errors.
It assumes that the errors are independently distributed
under normal distribution. An MA process of order q
can be written in this way. A combination of AR
and MA process derives ARMA models.
A slight modification of ARMA is auto regressive integrated
moving average process where we need the extra step
for differencing.
Now we conduct the ACF and PACF tests to determine
the suitable model.
You can see the correlation plots prepared on the stationary
data. We can determine the type of time series processes
and p and q
value from these two graphs.
You can use this table for your reference.
Let us check if our graphical description matches with the AR
process. If our ACF plot looks like this and the PACF
has significant spikes in its first lags,
then it is an AR
process. For MA process,
we start with the PACF to look for the sinusoidal pattern
and then identify the spikes in ACF. For ARMA,
both plots will display an exponential decay and ARIMA
will add on to the differencin g parameter to it.
In our case we see a dampened sinusoidal waveform in ACF and
PACF has some bold and distinct spikes.
Therefore it is clearly an AR process and we determined
the p value by counting the prominent spikes in early lags
from the PACF plot. Here the value is five. One, two, three,
four and five.
You can take this as a practice exercise to read different
types of ACF
and PACF plots to determine the model and their order.
In the next task we will continue with finding the best model.
See you there.